# Change Management #

## Everything always changes ##
We live in a world of constant change. Examples of this are changes in life, politics/laws, the physical world, climate, and many more. Within the domain of technology, it is always seen because technology is integrated with every part of life. It effects politics like how most candidates for government positions did not use social media platforms that often while Donald Trump utilized it to reach people throughout his canidacy. Technology is both the cause of change and can experience changes as it evolves. Recent evolution in technology is how people can send and receive payments through services like Chase Quickpay or Venmo. At IU, changes can be seen as the school moved from Oncourse to Canvas, and the software used for scheduling and registration for classes. Essentially, the world is in a constant rate of change. 

## Why do things change ##
One common example of change in technology is new and improved hardware. The creation of new hardware is implemented into new processes as seems fit. Examples of this are server architecture, actual computers, peripherals, and "conveyor technology". Another is upgrades in platforms whether it is a programming language, an operating system, or some other type of software. Changing specific tools will be dependent upon on if they can be implemented into the platform. Platforms are always being added, improved, or deprecated and tend not to be the choice of the end user such as in the case of programming languages. For example, Python changed the print function between versions 2 and 3 so users who are accustomed to the Python 2 syntax did not upgrade becasue they did not want syntax they used to be depracated. However, some changes will not be pushed through because of resistence from the eco-system that it is embedded in. Vendors of software or other technology will change software to force people to purchase their new software. The more people rely on the software, the more vendors can implement change without losing users. An example of this is Adobe where many people do not want to change to other media editing software because they are used to how Adobe functions. Best practices are another reason technology changes. An industry or niche within the industry may realize there is a more efficient way of performing some task in which they will implement the change and other organizations within the industry will follow. All change relies on how willing people are to innovate. The less resistence facing a change within an organzation or by people who use the organization's products/services, the more likely a change will be implemented.

## Why do we care?##
There are many costs and risks of poorly managed chang. Ignoring or mismanaging the people side of change has real consequences for project performance, such as project delays, budget overruns, required desing rework, resources are not made available, and unexpected obstacles. On an organizational level, poor change management can result in deep and sustained productivity plunges, loss of valued employees, and a reduced quality of work which negatively impacts customers, suppliers, and the morale of the organization itself. Making haphazard changes can be very damaging to the organization, especially if the organization has many stakeholders. That is why risk mitigation and weighing the risks is very important in change management, and making changes to production technologies can have a far-reaching effect on the organization. 

## When do we care?##
There are several conditions under which it is important to manage change. First off, it is important to manage change in risky situations in general, as described in the paragraph above. This becomes especially important when a large amount of people will be effected by a certain change. Errors in the ways a system supports a business process will only become more problematic as the number of users increases, so it is important to be careful when you know that the change is affected a somewhat large population of people. It is also important to manage change when there is money involved. Money is a top priority for businesses and determines how long a business can stay operational for. The last thing we want to lose money is the information system. Finally, it becomes important to manage change when there are multiple stakeholders involved. The IT staff members are not the only stakeholders of an information system change, and there may be many parties that will be intimatley involved in the change. Its important to involve those stakeholders in the change management process and consult where and when it is appropriate. 

##New Stuff##
Everyone likes new stuff, unless it replaces the old stuff.

###New Hardware###
As computers become faster and cheaper, it only makes senses for a company to buy new hardware periodically. This includes, but is not limited to, new servers, new laptops and cell phones, and new network infrastructure. With all of these new pieces of hardware comes new policy and process changes. In the 1950s, Punched Cards were the storage system for early computers, and there was a policy of how to handle them [("What Is Punch Card?”)](http://www.computerhope.com/jargon/p/punccard.htm). By the 1960s, however, magnetic disks became more and more popular – for their speed, size, and reliability – and with gaining popularity a process change occurred between these two products. 

###New Platforms###
New pieces and groups of software are constantly changing, just take a look at your App Store Updates, and these programs change from consumer behaviors. Whoever ends up buying or using the system is the one who the developer has to make happy and that may not always be in all stakeholder’s best interests. Platforms are constantly added, retired, and updated/upgraded. This can be as simple as Adobe releasing a new piece of the Creative Cloud, or as complicated as Windows retiring a specific version of <strike>Vista</strike> Windows 8. 

###New Best Practices###
Best practices, or shared organizational standards, are in constant change. These best practices are usually industry wide, so much so that many organizations in that same industry use similar or same best practices. Many vendors will share the best practices from client to client to improve overall efficiency and to make their clients happy. When best practices change however, the entire system itself may have to change. This itself is a barrier for many organizations to change their best practices, as it will cost money to make or buy the system and to train its employees on the new best practice itself. 

##Innovation##
At the end of the day change comes down to one thing: innovation. We have a constant need and desire to innovate and improve. Innovations start with a singular belief; whether to ‘connect the world’, or to ‘make information universally accessible and useful’ or to allow for people to read at night. Mark Zuckerberg, Google, and Thomas Edison all had this desire to innovate and they became very financially successful because of it [(Perkins)]( https://www.virgin.com/disruptors/what-is-the-motivation-behind-people%252525E2%25252580%25252599s-desire-to-innovate). It would be useless for some guy in a shed, in today’s market, to disrupt the market because in order to innovate we must get others on board with the change. One of the best ways to get people on board is to use organizations to help promote or expand the innovation to the rest of the world.


## Failing Change ##
Failure is not always make it or break it when it comes to the change. When most people think of change, they think of something that is a horrible failure that causes a catastrophy. Failure can come in many forms, whether it be from exceeding budgets, exceeding a time-table, or the final functionability of the product. A lot of the time, people just see the failure and do not analyze why the change failed. But why do changes fail? Changes can also fail for many different reasons. One way for a change to fail is that it is unclear what changed from the previous version. When it is unclear what has changed, this can cause confusion for those using the product. Another way a change can fail is that there is minimal buy-in from the people using product which had the change. The lack of buy-in can happen from those in management or the general workforce. Both scenarios can be bad but if the management does not buy-in to the change, then this could cause complete failure of the project. Additionally, failure can happen if the project has insufficient resources to finish the project. 

##Change management strategies ##
###Roadmaps###
Strategic roadmaps is an explanation on where a business or company is and plans to go by planning the "roads" it will take to get there. Similar to an actual roadmap, businesses may have to move in a different direction or turn towards different approaches to try to come up with a successful strategy.  
###Change commitees###
Change commitees are common within IT departments and are useful for making sure that changes within large businesses or organizations make smooth transitions when new changes occur.  The commitees ensure that the company is also making a correct transtion when making changes, such as making sure that there is no impedence on quality of the business product during the transitions. Having these commitess also lets changes occur more frequently and also helps provide support when major changes take place.
###Clear Policies/Procedures###
Having clear policies and procedures will help provide a great transition for when there is a change in a business.  With policies laid out for what and who can change certain things, then there will not be any confusion for what each specific person will manage.  It is easy for managers and/or workers to become confused if they are not sure who or what they are supposed to be managing and can cause to waste of time within businesses.  Also, without proper training or information about what a specific IT department is supposed to do then there will be likely be confusion within the department and people could do procedures incorrectly.
###Adequate Resources###
Having adequate resources when making a change is very important.  Making sure that there is enough money, workers, time, etc, when making a change will let people know what could be changed and how the resources will be used before and after a change within a company. Making changes within companies often uses some resources to try to help save some other resources.  For example, a company might try to hire more people and spend money resources so that they can have more people as resources to work within the company. Strategizing by looking at if there is enough resources for a certain change and if the change will provide better resources is a common way that companies strategize.

#Resources#

Perkins, Melanie. "What Is the Motivation behind People's Desire to Innovate?" Virgin. N.p., 11 Dec. 2015. Web. 21 Apr. 2017.
"What Is Punch Card?" Computer Hope. Web. 21 Apr. 2017.
