##Offensive Strategies##

It is important, and far easier to be in an offensive position in a group conflict, rather than a defensive position when working to manage that conflict. It is well worth one's time to be actively mitigating a conflict rather waiting for the pot to boil over, as long as they are putting in the extra effort to maintain sanity and deal with the issue(s) as a professional should. By actively engaging in working to fix a conflict, you are also making others involved aware that there is a conflict that poses a risk and that you think is important enough to find a solution to. This may help generate active, offensive contribution from other members of a team, making it easier to tackle a conflict. An offensive strategy, especially when working with multiple clients or stakeholders, is to keep everyone updated, and to share the progress of a specific task to all those involved. Even if nothing is done, its important that those involved know that working on the task is still a priority to you. Another strategy is to establish clear deliverables, owners, and due dates, so that everyone involved is aware of what they are responsible for, otherwise conflict could be sparked if responsibilties are not clear. Next, it is very important to always test the system, and test it  hard. The more comprehensive the testing is, the better off the information system will be. Finding issues with a system not only leads to conflict between the user and the system, but can also cause conflict between the systems team. Finally, it is essential that you be forward in any conflict. Since conflicts aren't going to always solve themselves, it is beneficial that you actively engage in searching for a solution or else you face the risk of the conflict growing. 
