##Quantitative Evaluation##
The results of a quantitative evaluation are those in which can be explicitly measured, calculated, or counted, and those results remain constant for everyone who is observing them. Quantitative evaluations serve to answer questions such as "How many?", "How much did it cost?", "What were the outcomes?", etc. Quantitative data can be collected by close-ended surveys or questionnaires, tests, observations, cost-benefit analysis, or review of existing documents and databases(Data points/mining. Methods such as close-ended surveys can be translated into numeric data that can be counted/calculated.  Data mining, the most modern method of IS data collection, can gather intel of user and environment activity by looking at how exactly users interact with their information system, and data based on their usage, preferences, and user effectiveness can be exposed. Also, input data is usually restricted in what types of values are evaluated.  Some ways to express quantitative evaluation data is with bar graphs, pie charts, and coordinate graphs.	

##Quantitative Evaluation Example##
One example of quantitative evaluation is from the article “Quantitative evaluation of software packages for single-molecule localization microscopy,” by Daniel Sage, Hagai Kirshner, Thomas Pengo, Nico Stuurman, Junhong Min, Suliana Manley, and Michael Unser, where software of localizing single-molecules is compared.  In the article there is a lot of quantitative data from the different software that can be compared.  This data includes detection rate of molecules, time, and scores for the software based on how well they can analyze the data.  After they received data, many of the points would be made into quantitative evaluation data such as with tables and coordinate graphs.  Using their data, many conclusions can be made such as what software package would be the best for the type of particle localization being done.
[Evaluation of Software Packages] (http://www.nature.com/nmeth/journal/v12/n8/pdf/nmeth.3442.pdf)


##Qualitative Evaluation##
	Qualitative research and evaluation has been defined as “making sense of data gathered from interviews, on-site observations, documents, and then having the “responsibly presenting what the data reveal” (Vaterlaus et al.). Unlike Quantitative Evaluation, Qualitative Evaluation is more about the who, what, when, where and why. In order to have proper Qualitative evaluations, one must either physically or virtually step into the environment of the subjects. This way we can see the perspectives, experiences, social and organizational contexts, and see how the subjects interact with the system. We start with a broad, open-ended question(s), with the goal of focusing down to achieve finer details and points. This goal helps us understand how and why people interact with systems. 
	We must never be afraid to ask why someone does something a certain way, how someone would prefer to do something, or even why they do it. This is how we discover new methods and ideas for system updates or creation. We can record the answers to our questions be writing them down or recording them, usually in informal interviews throughout the period. 

<p align=“center”> Works Cited </p>
<br />
I need to add the pdf here and fix formatting later 2nite.
<br />
Vaterlaus, Mitch J., and Brian J. Higginbotham. "Qualitative Program Evaluation Methods." Qualitative Program Evaluation Methods. NC State University, n.d. Web. 24 Feb. 2017. https://ncsu.edu/ffci/publications/2011/v16-n1-2011-spring/vaterlaus-higginbotham.php.