# Defining an Information System #
There is a clear difference between Information Technology (IT) and Information Systems (IS). IT systems primarily transmit, process, and store information while an IS uses the IT to maintain the IS. There are six different components of an IS which are hardware, software, data, network, procedures, and people. According to the encyclopedia of Britannica, IS are defined as “an integrated set of components for collecting, storing, and processing data and for providing information, knowledge, and digital products.” Many types of organizations implement IS to manage different types of operations. 
Resource:
[Encyclopedia of Britannica] (https://www.britannica.com/topic/information-system)

# History of the Information System #
Starting in the 1900s, there was a large demand for processing systems because of how  corporations were scaling. Hence, the use of record keepers/bookkeepers. With the invention of computers in the 1940s, the military implemented their use to manage operations. In the 1950s, this continued with the use of Electronic Data Processing (EDP) to perform record keeping for accounting, finance, etc. These processes were performed by mainframes which were basic computers that could only perform set calculations and were not malleable from a programming standpoint. The 1960s welcomed the IBM 360 series which came in many different sizes and and included an operating system. This eventually lead to the creation of Personal Computers (PCs) in the 1970s and basic Local Area Networking (LAN). Initially, these PCs were used only for business purposes but eventually came to the consumer’s home however they did not have much more functionality besides there business uses. Once the 1990s onset, LAN became Wide Area Networks (WAN) which have a larger range of connectivity between computers and the invention of databases to store information. Lastly, the 2000s introduced man to the internet which was the next logical step from WAN and of IS sharing data.

#Transactional Information Systems#
A transaction is essentially a single event that changes something. Transactional Information Systems have the ability to retrieve and process the detailed information that is necessary to update data on the fundamental operations of an organization, such as payroll, inventory, order entry, accounts payable, accounts receivable, and many others. These systems are able to collect, retrieve, store, modify, and output the transactional information of an enterprise, and the transaction processes of the system are programmed in advance. These systems also allow that all of a business' transactional information be up-to-date and readily available (real-time processing). Some characteristics of these systems include performance, reliability, and consistency; but in order to achieve these strengths, data must be readily accessible, and backup procedures and a recovery process must be in place to deal with system failures, etc.  Resource: [Transaction Process System](https://www.techopedia.com/definition/707/transaction-process-system-tps)

#Functional Information Systems#
Another type of information system is the functional informational system.  This type of information system has been common from the 1970’s to the present day, because functional information systems give an overview of a specific area of a part of a business and are able to do some routine activities and processes.  These processes include being able to store and change data, to do some routine tasks within an information system, and also be able to calculate useful information based off of parts or areas within the information system.  In lecture, we discussed how functional information systems “facilitated function of the department,” and how it provided an “easy transition from Transactional” (Paul).  Overall, functional information systems do special processes within a department of a business.<center>Work Cited</center> <br />&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Paul, LJ. "InfoSys.pptx." I303 Lecture. Bloomington. 2 Feb. 2017. Lecture.
